One thing that I wanna make mention
we're talking about Vue 3 today.
And Vue 3 is not so different from Vue 2,
in that the surface API is the same.
In this next section, we're gonna be
talking about what the reactivity system
is and that is all different in Vue 3.
But the surface API is the same, but
there are a few minor differences.
One is that we deprecated filters.
Another one is a lot of people are
probably here because they want to learn
the composition API,
which is an additive new feature,
that's an advanced feature
that we'll talk about.
But in case you're coming from Vue 2,
I'll discuss filters really quickly.
Filters were dropped between Vue 2 and
Vue 3,
because you can do everything
with a computed property.
And I'll show you what I mean by this.
In Vue 2, if we wanted to show a tip or
something that's slightly
different from the original value,
I would use a pipe.
And I would say filters and
I would parse in the value and
then I would return
[value* .2].toFixed(2).
Which would yield this Tip Calculator
that has the total and
it's 20%, and
then it shows what that value is.
So this is Vue 2, that's why this syntax
looks a little bit different too that we
changed the kind of Vue instance as well.
The mounting.
And here you see this customer total,
I'll open it up And the pipe.
And that's how we would use filters.
But you might understand that we can
actually do the same thing with computer
properties.
And the reason why it's important to
deprecate features like this that you can
actually do the same thing in,
is we wanted to make Vue 3 super small.
Vue 3 is really, really tiny comparatively
and it offers really great performance.
And part of the reason is that we're
making sure that surface area of the API
is slender.
So if we wanted to do a similar thing,
I could say, data customer total one,
tip20, return customertotal*
2}.toFixed(2).
And I could return that as
a computed property, right?
So I could offer the same thing.
Now, you might notice one
small difference here,
which is that I wasn't
able to parse a parameter.
And I'm not able to do that and compute
it, it's tied now to customer1total.
But you can do that with methods, and
we're gonna go over that when I do
the building web apps with Vue,
we're gonna create some with
methods instead of filters.
So you'll be able to see
those more in action.
But you can use computer properties or
methods for
the same functionality,
so that was dropped.
Some other examples that you might
use computer properties for,
are adding currency signs.
If you have to say 1st, 2nd,
3rd place, something like that,
to that effect, if you're adding
in a two you probably always
want to prepend it with and,
[LAUGH] and so on and so forth.
Those kind of simple explanations.
For more complex ones, you can filter
large amounts of data that we just showed,
or you can create dazzling
data visualizations.
Let's say you have a map
of the United States and
you wanna show only some
units based on a condition.
That's a really good example
of using computer properties.